\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename sourcer68.info
@include version.texi
@include package.texi
@settitle @command{sourcer68}: @value{DESCRIPTION}
@finalout
@c %**end of header

@dircategory @value{INFOCAT}
@direntry
* sourcer68: (sourcer68).             @value{DESCRIPTION}.
@end direntry

@synindex cp ky
@setchapternewpage odd

@c !BEGIN INTRO
@ifinfo
This is Edition @value{EDITION} of @cite{The @command{sourcer68} Manual},
for @command{sourcer68} version @value{VERSION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}.
@c !END INTRO

@c !BEGIN COPYING
@*Copyright @copyright{} 1998-2009 Benjamin Gerard

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual upon condition that the  provided the copyright notice
and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
@c !END COPYING
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title sourcer68
@subtitle 
@sp 1
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @command{sourcer68} version @value{VERSION} @value{UPDATED}
@c !BEGIN AUTHORS
@author Benjamin Gerard
@c !END AUTHORS
@end titlepage
@c @page

@ifinfo
@node Top, sourcer68 Program, (dir), (dir)
@top @command{sourcer68}: 68000 disassembler/sourcer

The @command{sourcer68} is used to disassemble 68000 program files.

@ignore
@c !BEGIN NAME
MC68000 disassembler/sourcer
@c !END NAME
@end ignore

@menu
* sourcer68 Program::           The @command{sourcer68} Program
* Options Summary::             List of command line options
* Entry-List::                  Entry-list syntax
* Input::                       Supported Input files
@end menu

@center manual for sourcer68 version @value{VERSION} edited on @value{UPDATED}

@end ifinfo

@node sourcer68 Program, Options Summary, Top, Top
@section The @command{sourcer68} Program

@section Description
@c !BEGIN DESCRIPTION
@command{sourcer68} is a program to disassemble 68000 programs. It
supports several input format such as raw-binary, Atari TOS files or
sc68 files.
@c !END DESCRIPTION

@c !BEGIN SYNOPSIS
@section Synopsis
@display
@command{sourcer68 [OPTION] <input>}
@end display
@c !END SYNOPSIS

@node Options Summary, Entry-List, sourcer68 Program, Top
@c !BEGIN OPTIONS
@section Options Summary
@table @samp
@item @option{--help}
      Display help message and exit.
@item @option{--version}
      Display version and exit.
@item @option{--reloc=[yes|no|auto]}
      Apply TOS relocation (default=auto).
@item @option{--tab=[STRING]}
      Set tabulation string.
@item @option{--opcode}
      Print opcodes.
@item @option{--ascii}
      Convert immediat value to ASCII string if suitable.
@item @option{--no-symbol}
      Disable symbol in disassembly output.
@item @option{--org=[ADDR]}
      Load address (origin) (default:0x8000)
@item @option{--entry=[ENTRY-LIST]}
      Set disassembly entry points (default:+0).

      @xref{Entry-List}.
@item @option{--sc68-data=path}
      Set shared resource path (prior to @env{SC68_DATA})
@item @option{--sc68-user=path}
      Set user resource path (prior to @env{SC68_USER})
@item @option{--sc68-music=path}
      Set local music path (prior to @env{SC68_MUSIC})
@item @option{--sc68-rmusic=path}
      Set remote music path (prior to @env{SC68_RMUSIC})
@end table
@c !END OPTIONS

@node Entry-List, Input, Options Summary, Top
@c !BEGIN ENTRYLIST
@section Entry-list
Entry-list is used to specify disassembly entry point. By default
disassembly starts at the beginning of the file (address +0). The
disassembly continue by tracking all branch instructions (and some
other tricks outside of the scope of the document). Sometime some part
of code that should be disassemble are not. So entry-list allow to fix
this.
@subsection Syntax
@table @samp
@item ENTRY-LIST := ENTRY|RANGE(,ENTRY|RANGE ...)
A coma (,) separated list of ENTRY or RANGE
@item ENTRY := (+|l ...)NUMBER([+-/*&|^<>]NUMBER...)
ENTRY specify an entry-point address from which a new disassembler
pass will be started. If an ENTRY begins with a plus (+) the address
is relative to the program start address (origin). The number can be
an expression mixing C-like numbers, operators and parenthesis
'()'. Operators are '+-/*&|^<>' with '<' and '>' for arithmetic
shifting. Beware of using proper parenthesis since operators have no
precedence. Using one or more prefix 'l' for indirection (just like
'*' unary C operator).
@item RANGE := [ENTRY,ENTRY]
A range starts as many passes it needs to disassemble the code in the
address range. Using indirection 'l' operator before a range have a
special meaning. In this case the range is used a an indirect table of
entries. In the same way the unary plus '+' operator makes both values
of the range relative to the origin.
@end table
@subsection Example
--entry=+10,+0x44,0x1000+(5*4),+[0x40-0x80]
@c !END ENTRYLIST

@node Input,  , Entry-List, Top
@c !BEGIN INPUT
@section Input
Supported input format are binary, Atari-TOS and possibly sc68 files
(depends on configuration). If sc68 files are supported all sc68
compatible URL will be supported. It may include a lot of them in case
file68 was configured with curl support.

@subsection binary
All raw data files. Default entry point is the start of the file.

@subsection Atari-TOS
Atari ST .tos or .prg files. When a TOS file is given
@command{sourcer68} performs a relocation operation based on TOS
relocation table format (unless --reloc=no is given). TOS files can
have several sections. Most common sections are TEXT, DATA and
BSS. The disassembly output keeps track of these sections

@subsection sc68 files
All sc68 compatible files (native .sc68 and sndh files). sc68 files
support is somehow limited. Currently it only works if with the
default music and only if this music used no external replay resource.
Ideally it should be improve to create a source code that produces an
sc68 file... A lot to do there !! 
@c !END INPUT


@ignore
@c !BEGIN SEEALSO
The full documentation for @command{sourcer68} is maintained as a
Texinfo manual. If the @command{info} and @command{sourcer68} programs
are properly installed at your site, the command

@command{info sourcer68}

should give you access to the complete manual.
@c !END SEEALSO
@end ignore

@page
@contents
@bye
