\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename sc68.info
@include version.texi
@include package.texi
@settitle @command{sc68}: @value{DESCRIPTION}
@finalout
@c %**end of header

@dircategory @value{INFOCAT}
@direntry
* sc68: (sc68).             @value{DESCRIPTION}
@end direntry

@synindex cp ky
@setchapternewpage odd

@ifinfo
This is Edition @value{EDITION} of @cite{The @command{sc68} Manual},
for @command{sc68} version @value{VERSION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}.
@c !BEGIN INTRO
@c !END INTRO

@c !BEGIN COPYING
@*Copyright @copyright{} 1998-2009 Benjamin Gerard

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual upon condition that the  provided the copyright notice
and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
@c !END COPYING
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title sc68
@subtitle 
@sp 1
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @command{sc68} version @value{VERSION} @value{UPDATED}
@c !BEGIN AUTHORS
@author Benjamin Gerard
@c !END AUTHORS
@end titlepage
@c @page

@ifinfo
@node Top, sc68 Program, (dir), (dir)
@top @command{sc68}: get sc68 file information

The @command{sc68} is used to play Atari ST and Amiga music files.


@ignore
@c !BEGIN NAME
/|\ Atari ST and C= Amiga music player.
@c !END NAME
@end ignore


@menu
* sc68 Program::                The @command{sc68} Program
* Options Summary::             Options Summary
@end menu

@center manual for sc68 version @value{VERSION} edited on @value{UPDATED}

@end ifinfo

@node sc68 Program, Options Summary, Top, Top
@section The @command{sc68} Program

@section Description
@c !BEGIN DESCRIPTION
@command{sc68} is a program to play sc68 music file.
@c !END DESCRIPTION

@c !BEGIN SYNOPSIS
@section Synopsis
@display
@command{sc68 [OPTION] [--] <URI>}
@end display
@c !END SYNOPSIS

@node Options Summary,  , sc68 Program, Top
@c !BEGIN OPTIONS
@section Options Summary

@option{--} breaks option parsing.

@subsection Informationnal Options
@table @samp
@item  @option{-h}
@itemx @option{--help}
Display help message and exit.
@item  @option{-V}
@itemx @option{--version}
Display build date and exit.
@item  @option{--debug-list}
Display debug features and exit.
@end table

@subsection General Options
@table @samp
@item  @option{-t}
@itemx @option{--track=track[,loop]}
Choose track to play [0=all-tracks] and number of loop [0=infinite]
@item  @option{-o <output-uri>}
@itemx @option{--output=<output-uri>}
Set output. Default is stdout. 
@end table

@subsection sc68 Engine Options
@table @samp
@item  @option{--sc68-no-debug}
Disable all debug output ($SC68_NO_DEBUG).
@item  @option{--sc68-debug=features}
Set debug features ($SC68_DEBUG). Currently features is a number which
bit match a feature as given by @option{--debug-list}.
@item  @option{--sc68-data=path}
Set shared resource path (prior to @env{SC68_DATA}).
@item  @option{--sc68-user=path}
Set user resource path (prior to @env{SC68_USER}).
@item  @option{--sc68-music=path}
Set local music path (prior to @env{SC68_MUSIC}).
@item  @option{--sc68-rmusic=path}
Set remote music path (prior to @env{SC68_RMUSIC}).
@end table
@c !END OPTIONS

@ignore
@c !BEGIN SEEALSO
The full documentation for @command{sc68} is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the @command{info} and @command{sc68} programs are properly installed at your site, the command

@command{info sc68}

should give you access to the complete manual.
@c !END SEEALSO
@end ignore

@page
@contents
@bye
