\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@include version.texi
@include package.texi
@setfilename info68.info
@settitle @command{@value{PACKAGE}}: @value{DESCRIPTION}
@finalout @c overfull hbox fix ?
@c %**end of header

@dircategory sc68 project
@direntry
* @value{PACKAGE}: (sc68).             @value{DESCRIPTION}.
@end direntry

@synindex cp ky
@setchapternewpage odd

@ifinfo
This is Edition @value{EDITION} of @cite{The @command{@value{PACKAGE}}
Manual}, for @command{@value{PACKAGE}} version @value{VERSION}, last
updated @value{UPDATED}.

@*Copyright @copyright{} 1998-2014 Benjamin Gerard

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual upon condition that the  provided the copyright notice
and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title @value{PACKAGE}
@sp 1
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @command{@value{PACKAGE}} version @value{VERSION} @value{UPDATED}
@author Benjamin Gerard
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
@node Top, Description, (dir), (dir)
@top @command{info68}: @value{DESCRIPTION}

This manual documents how to use version @value{VERSION} of
@command{info68}, a program to print formatted information on sc68
files.

@menu
* Description::
* Invoking info68::
* Examples::

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Invokation

* Options::
* Track-list::
* Format-string::

Format-string

* Disk commands::               Print info about disk
* Track commands::              Print info about current track
* Misc commands::               Print special chars
* Tags commands::               Print generic meta tags

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@center manual for @value{PACKAGE} version @value{VERSION} edited on @value{UPDATED}

@end ifinfo

@c **********************************************************************
@c * DESCRIPTION
@c **********************************************************************

@node Description, Invoking info68, Top, Top
@unnumbered Description

@command{info68} is a program to print formatted tags contained by
sc68 files.
     
@node Invoking info68, Examples, Description, Top
@unnumbered Invoking info68

@unnumberedsec Synopsis
@display
@command{info68 [Options] [--] <URI> ([Track-list] Format-string ) ...}
@command{info68 --help}
@command{info68 --version}
@end display

Opens the sc68 file located by @dfn{<URI>} and prints the
@dfn{Format-string} for each tracks defined by the @dfn{Track-list}.

@menu
* Options::
* Track-list::
* Format-string::
@end menu

@c **********************************************************************
@c * OPTIONS
@c **********************************************************************

@node Options, Track-list, Invoking info68, Invoking info68
@unnumberedsec Options

@multitable @columnfractions 0.1 0.3 0.6
@item
@tab  @option{--}
@tab  Break option parsing
@item @option{-h}
@tab  @option{--help}
@tab  Display help message and exit
@item @option{-V}
@tab  @option{--version}
@tab  Display build date and exit.
@item @option{-o}
@tab  @option{--output=<uri>}
@tab  Set output (default is stdout) 
@item @option{-A}
@tab  @option{--all}
@tab  Display all information and tags
@end multitable

@menu
* Track-list::
* Format-string::
@end menu

@node Track-list, Format-string, Options, Invoking info68
@unnumberedsec Track-list
track-list executes the next format string for all listed tracks one
after another in the given order. Track number 0 in track-list is
replaced by the last track number (equal to the number of track).

@unnumberedsubsec Syntax
@option{-DIGIT[[,DIGIT]|[-DIGIT]]*}

@unnumberedsubsec Examples
@table @samp
@item @option{-1,15,4-6}
will sequence tracks 1,15,4,5 and 6 in this order.
@item @option{-1-0}
will sequence all tracks in incremental order.
@end table

@node Format-string,  , Track-list, Invoking info68
@unnumberedsec Format-string

The format string is printed for all tracks listed by the
@ref{Track-list} command (or the default track if track-list is
omit). Special %-format commands may be inserted in the format
string. These commands are composed of a percent (%) followed by an
optionnal length modifier (a la printf) and a code character which
defines the function of the %-command. There are 4 types of
%-commands:

@menu
* Disk commands::               Print info about disk
* Track commands::              Print info about current track
* Misc commands::               Print special chars
* Tags commands::               Print generic meta tags
@end menu

@node Disk commands, Track commands, Format-string, Format-string
@unnumberedsubsec Disk commands

The disk commands display information on the disk (album) such as
album name, number of track, total play time ...

@multitable @columnfractions 0.1 0.9
@item @option{%#}
@tab  number of tracks
@item @option{%?}
@tab  default track
@item @option{%N}
@tab  disk (album) name
@item @option{%A}
@tab  default track author
@item @option{%C}
@tab  default track composer
@item @option{%P}
@tab  default ripper name
@item @option{%V}
@tab  default converter name
@item @option{%T}
@tab  disk total time in second
@item @option{%Y}
@tab  disk total time in ``TT MM:SS'' format
@item @option{%H}
@tab  all tracks ORed hardware flags
@item @option{%F}
@tab  file format (sc68 or sndh)
@item @option{%~}
@tab  file hash code (unic-id)
@item @option{%U}
@tab  input URI
@end multitable

@node Track commands, Misc commands, Disk commands, Format-string
@unnumberedsubsec Track commands

The track commands print information according to the current
track. The current track is the one being processed by the track-list
command or the default track if no track-list has been specified.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.1 0.9
@item @option{%&}
@tab  track number
@item @option{%n}
@tab  track name
@item @option{%a}
@tab  track author
@item @option{%c}
@tab  track composer
@item @option{%p}
@tab  track ripper name
@item @option{%v}
@tab  converter name
@item @option{%r}
@tab  replay name
@item @option{%t}
@tab  track  time in second
@item @option{%y}
@tab  track time in ``TT MM:SS'' format
@item @option{%f}
@tab  replay frequency (in hz)
@item @option{%n}
@tab  track duration in frames
@item @option{%@@}
@tab  load address (hexadecimal)
@item @option{%h}
@tab  track hardware flags [YSA], uppercase ON, lowercase OFF
      Y:YM%2149 S:STE A:Amiga
@end multitable

@node Misc commands, Tags commands, Track commands, Format-string
@unnumberedsubsec Misc commands
@multitable @columnfractions 0.1 0.9
@item @option{%L}
@tab  Display a newline character
@item @option{%0}
@tab  Display zero/null character
@item @option{%%}
@tab  Display a percent character
@end multitable

@node Tags commands,  , Misc commands, Format-string
@unnumberedsubsec Tags commands
@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.8
@item @option{%@{tag@rbracechar{}}
@tab  Display a meta tag value. Use uppercase first letter to address
      disk tag and lowercase to address current track tag
@end multitable

@c **********************************************************************
@c * EXAMPLES
@c **********************************************************************

@node Examples,  , Invoking info68, Top
@unnumbered Examples

@example
info68 BMX_Simulator.sndh
@end example

Opens the file @file{BMX_Simulator.sndh} and exit without further
process. This is a good way to just test whether <URI> is a valid sc68
file/resource or not.

@example
info68 \
 'sc68://music/Jochen Hippel (Mad Max)/0/Wings Of Death/' \
 '-1,5,4-6' \
 '> %03&/%# %N - %a - %n%L'

> 001/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #1
> 005/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #5
> 004/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #4
> 005/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #5
> 006/10 Wings Of Death - Jochen Hippel (Mad Max) - Level #6
@end example

@page
@contents
@bye
